Project Requirement

San Jose State University
CS 157A / Section 1
Fall 2019 - Group 25
Professor Mike Wu


Team Members:
Au Tran
Benny Ooi
Aldrich Mangune


Date Created:
9/6/2019

Project Overview
In this project, we will be working on a three-tier database application for SJSU students to sell or buy their used textbooks. 
We will be developing a database for an e-commerce site for online textbook shopping service. A popular way for students to save money 
on course materials is to purchase used textbooks. The goal is to provide a common interactive platform for students to buy new/used 
textbooks or listing their used textbooks for sale. In addition, we would also like to offer another alternative for SJSU students 
that want to reliably sell and buy used textbooks. In this application, there will be 2 majorities of users will be using this 
application which is the buyer and the seller of the used textbooks. The seller can sell their used textbook at any price as they wish. 
An e-commerce website will provide ease of access to our products/services and satisfy the demands of our customers in a timely manner.


System Environment


(Missing Diagram Here that will be display on our Google Docs Link)


Our client interface(front-end) will be built using JavaScript, CSS/HTML5. The web server will be set up with Apache as our platform and 
our server-side language being PHP while our scripting language choice is Python. Our database will naturally utilize MySQL. 




Functional Requirements

Require Functions:

Account Login
- Users will be prompt with a login panel and they must log into their personal account to continue with the application. 

Registering a new account
- Users will also be given an option on startup screen to register a new account. Users will submit the necessary information for 
  account creation and use the newly created account to login to the application
  
Viewing the Textbook Catalog
- Users will be able the view the entire textbook catalog on sale. They will also have the options to order the textbooks by title, 
  author, or price
  
Searching for a textbook
- Users will be able to search for a specific textbook by inputting certain information such as Title, Author, ISBN # and it will 
  returns a list view of all textbooks matching the description
  
Request a Textbook
- Users can post a request for a textbook not listed for sale on the application. Admins/sellers can view the request and possibly 
  list the textbook for sale or directly contact the requested buyer and set up a transaction
  
Bookmark a Textbook
- Users can bookmark various textbooks they are interested in for convenience access later. The list of bookmarked textbook will appears 
  in the Bookmark tab in their profile for them to view.
  
User profile
- Every user will have their own profile page containing their basic information and user will be able to update their own profile page. 
  They may also be able to view others people’s profile such as a seller for a textbook they are interested in buying.
  
Listing a Textbook for Sale
- Users can list a textbook that they have for sale. They must provide information regarding the textbook like Title, Author, ISBN #, 
  Price, Publisher, Year Published, a short description of the condition of the textbook, and a couple of images displaying the textbook.
- Users can also update their existing textbook listings. They can cancel these listings or update information about them such as 
  price, conditions of the textbook, or upload new images of the textbook.
  
 (Here we have a few diagrams showing our function requirements design which will be display on our Google Docs link)

Non-functional Issues

4.1 Overview of User Interface
UI is designed according to the user-friendly interface principle. The UI is designed in such a way of related things are combined 
together and unrelated things are placed in the drawer layout UI. For instance, the user wants to buy a textbook and they will press the
buyer button on the homepage in order to be directed to a search bar. Subsequently, the user will be able to input information about the
textbook into the search, consequently, the results of the textbook that matches the search keyword will be listed on a scroll view 
depends on the searches result from our database. Our application design is straightforward and providing direct access to common 
functions. In addition, we also design the interface as simple as possible so that most of the users do not need much explanation 
on how to use this application. The goal of this application is to provide good user experience by designing a clean, simple and 
intuitive interface.

4.2 Security and access control
The user will first be prompted to log into their account before being able to access any of the other activities. 
If the user does not have an account, the user will select the Register button in order to register an account. When the user logs 
into their account, they will be sent to the home page. There will be 3 main functions in the home page which are sell, buy and 
transaction. When the user selects the buy button on the home page, they will be navigated to the search activity page in order 
to search for a textbook. The search function will put up different textbooks depending on the user input and the user will be able
to view the profile of the seller of the listed textbook by selecting the profile button. The user will also be able to bookmark 
listed textbooks with the bookmark button to view later. 
